Name: Ethan Chiu
Course: COMSC-110-1021

1a. Explain in words what are the 3 control structures and how each of the 3 control structures 
works in general.
The 3 control structures are Sequence, Selection, and Repetition. 
The Sequence structure is the top down in order execution of code statements (ex: like following a cooking recipe). 
The Selection structure is used for decisions. For example, if a condition is true, then the program does something. 
The Repetition structure is used for looping for repeating a set of instructions multiple times.

1b. Explain in words what are the 3 kinds of programming errors and give examples.
The 3 kinds of programming errors are Syntax errors, Logic errors, and Runtime/Exeuction errors. 
A Syntax error is caused by the misuse of the language.
An example of a Syntax error is when someone mispells a term in a program which prevents the program from compiling.
A Logic error is when there is a design flaw in the program. 
An example of a Logic error is someone is told to close the front door to prevent flies from coming in when 
the back door is open (since the back door could also let in flies).
A Runtime/Execution error occurs when a program asks the computer to do something that the computer can't do reliably. 
An example of a Runtime/Execution errors are the divide by zero error in a calculator or the 

1c. What are the 5 functions of all computers?
The 5 functions of all computers are Input, Processing, Output, Store Data, Communicate.

1d. Explain in words what is a statement and what is an expression and what is the difference.
A statement is like a complete sentence while an expression is like a phrase. Statements can be run alone while expressions can't 

1e. What are the 2 major categories of software and the 3 subcategories of each.
The 2 major categories of software are Systems and Application. The 3 subcategories of Systems Software 
are Operating, Utlilities, and Language Translators (Compilers, Interpreters, Assemblers). 
The 3 subcategories of Application Software are Productivity, Education, and Entertainment. 

1f. What are the 3 language translators and how do they work? They translate what to what?
The 3 language translators are Compilers, Interpreters, and Assemblers. They all convert human programmed 
code into computer programs. Specifically, they take an input text file and convert it into a program file 
or executable. 